📖 docs: Consolidate MachinePool documentation (#12810)
kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api: docs/book/src/concepts/machinepool.md

Reviewer: I would suggest to merge this page in https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/tasks/experimental-features/machine-pools instead of spreading knowledge relevant for the users in multiple places.

If this page becomes too complex/hard to read, let's create sub pages like we did for cluster class and runtime SDK

- [When to use MachinePool vs MachineDeployment](#when-to-use-machinepool-vs-machinedeployment)
- [Next steps](#next-steps)

## Introduction

Cluster API (CAPI) manages Kubernetes worker nodes primarily through Machine, MachineSet, and MachineDeployment objects. These primitives manage nodes individually (Machines), and have served well across a wide variety of providers.

However, many infrastructure providers already offer first-class abstractions for groups of compute instances (AWS: Auto Scaling Groups (ASG), Azure: Virtual Machine Scale Sets (VMSS), or GCP: Managed Instance Groups (MIG)). These primitives natively support scaling, rolling upgrades, and health management.

MachinePool brings these provider features into Cluster API by introducing a higher-level abstraction for managing a group of machines as a single unit.

## What is a MachinePool?

A MachinePool is a Cluster API resource representing a group of worker nodes. Instead of reconciling each machine individually, CAPI delegates lifecycle management to the infrastructure provider.

- **MachinePool (core API)**: defines desired state (replicas, Kubernetes version, bootstrap template, infrastructure reference).

> - **InfrastructureMachinePool (provider API)**: provider-specific implementation that backs a pool. A provider may offer more than one type depending on how it is managed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **InfrastructureMachinePool (provider API)**: provides an implementation that backs a pool. A provider may offer more than one type depending on how it is managed. For example:
```

Author: Done.

  > **Note**: While this is typically true, certain cloud providers do offer flexibility. 
  > **Example**: AWS allows `AWSMachinepool.spec.mixedInstancesPolicy.instancesDistribution` while Azure allows `AzureMachinePool.spec.orchestrationMode`.
- **Complex reconciliation**: node-to-providerID matching introduces edge cases (delays, inconsistent states).
- **Draining**: The cloud resources for MachinePool may not necessarily support draining of Kubernetes worker nodes. For example, with an AWSMachinePool, AWS would normally terminate instances as quickly as possible. To solve this, tools like `aws-node-termination-handler` combined with ASG lifecycle hooks (defined in `AWSMachine.spec.lifecycleHooks`) must be installed, and is not a built-in feature of the infrastructure provider (CAPA in this example).
- **Maturity**: The MachinePool API is still considered experimental/beta.

## When to use MachinePool vs MachineDeployment

Both MachineDeployment and MachinePool are valid options for managing worker nodes in Cluster API. The right choice depends on your infrastructure provider's capabilities and your operational requirements.

### Use MachinePool when:

> - **Cloud provider supports scaling group primitives**: AWS Auto Scaling Groups, Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets, GCP Managed Instance Groups. These resources natively handle scaling, rolling upgrades, and health checks.

Reviewer 2: Should we perhaps mention OCI and Scaleway, the other two providers who support MachinePools? Also GCP isn't yet implemented so perhaps we shouldn't be listing it.

- **Maturity**: The MachinePool API is still considered experimental/beta.

## When to use MachinePool vs MachineDeployment

Both MachineDeployment and MachinePool are valid options for managing worker nodes in Cluster API. The right choice depends on your infrastructure provider's capabilities and your operational requirements.

### Use MachinePool when:

- **Cloud provider supports scaling group primitives**: AWS Auto Scaling Groups, Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets, GCP Managed Instance Groups, OCI Compute Instances, Scaleway Kapsule. These resources natively handle scaling, rolling upgrades, and health checks.
- **You want to leverage cloud provider-level features**: MachinePool enables direct use of cloud-native upgrade strategies (e.g., surge, maxUnavailable) and autoscaling behaviors.

> - **You are operating medium-to-large node groups**: Managing 50+ nodes through individual Machine objects can add significant reconciliation overhead. MachinePool reduces this by consolidating the group into a single object.

Reviewer: Q:   Is this still correct? 
With Machine Pool Machines, the load for core CAPI controller seems the same
Also there are features in CAPI designed to work at node level like MHC and reconciliation of providerID (so no benefit also here)
